5 years now I don't necessarily believe
that's true but it what it goes to show
is the extent to which all of us tend to
really believe that AI is going to
disrupt and transform how our
organizations operate how we do business
how we ourselves
work but there is one thing that's
likely not to
change Talent being a critical challenge
for any executive
leader I like like to
joke that any marketing collateral or
research note that cites how important
Talent is for a CEO when you update it
all you have to do is pick a number
between 1 to five and change the year
and you'll likely be right because
Talent is the challenge cited in the top
five for years and years and years and
we think it will be as we go
forward but as we look look at talent
and the challenge it's going to bring
for executive leaders for CEOs for
ourselves going
forward we're facing a great degree of
uncertainty a great degree of change in
many other areas not just
AI our best answer to all of this is
autonomy giving people more autonomy
giving teams more autonomy giving
machines more
autonomy
and you may Wonder can technology really
lead to Greater autonomy how I work
doesn't it actually just control the way
I do things restrain me more give me
less choice or is it giving me more
autonomy to do
more and this is a big part of our next
wave of Technology enabled business
value innovation autonomous business you
may have heard us talk about autonomous
business in other sessions or in other
research that we have published this
next wave where our feet are firmly
planted in the first steps of this AI
enabled
transformation going Beyond and building
on what we learned in EB business and in
digital business
transformation in this AI powered
Automation and autonomous business we
talk about machine customers being in
the
center and what we're focusing on today
is around augmented leader and
Executives change themselves and the
professions and how they work by how the
organization is operating all of these
pieces really coming together in
autonomous business another way to look
at this is that we have applied AI as
the foundation for yet another wave of
business transformation that's going to
impact and augment our workers and our
leaders management and the organization
overall
I want to talk a little bit though about
what it means to move from automation to
augmentation and autonomy especially
when we talk about the machine side of
the equation so what the tools are
doing we tend to turn back to automation
because that's what we know we want
predictability we want consistency we
want tools that enable things to do
things as
expected but aiming towards augmentation
and autonomy with all the Investments
we're making in everyday Ai and
gamechanging AI to come where we're
facing complexity in the decisions to be
made using AI to support better
information retrieval keeping human in
the loop but it's probability driven and
when you get to autonomy within machines
there's complexity and continuous
learning so that it can also address the
unexpected so that these capabilities
are context and probability and
observation driven and even goal
oriented that's what we talk about when
we say how machines go from automation
into augmentation and autonomy and when
we bring that on the human side and on
the machine side we get transformation
for individual professionals and leaders
for management decision-making and for
Enterprise
productivity so I said said that Talent
is your consistent challenge we're going
to go into each of these areas and talk
about the key challenges how we're using
AI to address them and how that's going
to then change how we manage things how
we ourselves work as executive
leaders so for individual professional
and leaders the promise of AI is to
reduce the time it takes to get up to
speed reduce time to competency or
reduce time to
proficiency I got to participate to was
part of a Maverick project it's a part
of our research where we get to test new
ideas and this was back in 2018 we are
writing how AI is going to make us
Dumber unless we teach it to teach us
back it's taking away all the simple
drudgery kind of tasks where we learn
kind of how things work in a lowrisk
environment and we leap into the high
complexity tasks and need to be able to
respond effectively in these more comp
complex areas things that we are seeing
as the talent challenge faced in say
back office of insurance claims
processing Financial Services or in the
customer contact center around increased
work complexity and labor cost because
AI is taken away so many of those small
tasks and as new tasks
arrive they have to be able to get up to
speed quickly and address these things
that happen less frequently and are more
complex so you turn to AI to help
them so we turn to AI essentially to be
able to address this Talent challenge
decrease the time to competency and
increase people's sense of Mastery
competence and impact to the work they
do confidence that when they take on
those more complex tasks they're able to
do it well and and prove themselves as
an individual
professional and we already see this
emerging with the augmented connected
Workforce if you didn't see our top
strategic Tech Trend session we do speak
about it there and write about the
augmented connected Workforce where you
have the individual in their digital and
physical work context they have
decisions they need to make and we are
orchestrating all of the technology but
also all of the support from Knowledge
from how roles are designed and from all
of the skills development capabilities
we put in place to support people to
take on that more complex work despite
not having gone through the more simple
tasks an example from MC where they were
using augmented reality to do this
working with teams in their smart
manufacturing facilities to drive that
time to competency and that's what they
achieved two weeks time saving for
training and time to
proficiency so this is today's work that
organizations are already embarking upon
as they invest in AI for workers granted
in more routine work but we can see this
extending with emerging capabilities
that we're starting to experiment with
that we want to be implementing in the
next few years that are part of the next
wave of everyday AI things like
augments augments where we enable people
in the organization to get these or even
build their own own micro apps that are
highly contextual and provide assistance
and a performance boost think of a
marketing team member or a sales team
member prepare preparing correspondents
and needing a reminder of what the
updated information about the product is
or needing an update on certain language
that has changed and that augment coming
in and giving advice in context for that
person provide um putting together that
new correspondence that is one example
of augment in that context there could
be so many more changing how people get
the skills and the knowledge to do their
work or the virtual coach where we're
giving this for the manager the team
leader who needs to prepare really
really tough
conversations how do you prepare really
tough feedback conversations with team
members today do you maybe by yourself
muttering to yourself uh as you're
taking a walk to kind of think think
through how you want to address the
tough conversation maybe you have an HR
partner who says I'll sit down with you
and we can practice but what if you had
a tool that you could practice where it
would respond back in a predictable way
that probably the person who's not very
happy about receiving the feedback would
respond and you can kind of react to
that and practice with a more realistic
set of
responses emerging sets of technologies
that are coming into the market today
are they perfect of course not but are
the Investments there and is there
actually products being sold
yes so wait for more support to managers
in terms of those
conversations so when we think about
going towards greater degree of
augmentation but also autonomy for
individual professionals and leaders the
talent challenge that existing Talent
challenge we already had and that's
going to continue on and on and on is
that complexity of work and high
performance expectations I've had those
conversations this week where when they
introduce
AI it mostly means people need to work
faster the expectation is they can
deliver things so much more quickly if
they're getting support to generate
content or something like that the goal
is to improve individual performance
through autonomy Mastery and competency
you're trying to drive down time to
competency through the invest in Ai and
other types of Technologies like the
augmented connected Workforce
Technologies microw app augments or a
virtual coach conversational simulation
all of this will change how your leaders
how you think about your own skills
development Your Leader skills
development others capability
development performance Etc that's where
that transformation comes in based on
what we've already started similar with
decision- making which is a second
element where AI comes in and that
promise of AI is better just in time
decisions increased speed in decision
making and of course off offloading that
cognitive
load I would guess that everybody in
this room has heard this message many
many times over many years this promise
that would come I know I started my
career at business objects decades ago I
won't say how
many but I still remember the ad make
everybody a CEO of their organization
because they get data and decision
support and we know what kind of
Technology we had in place
with desktop business objects reports to
support people so This Promise has been
longstanding what's changing is the
complexity most people feel that their
decisions are more and more complex I
would get as many of you feel the
decisions you have to make on a
day-to-day basis are more complex
because too many people are involved
because there's unclear decision
Authority there's an inability to
collaborate across SOS or disagreement
on
objectives and maybe for yourself if
you're if you're managing directly a
team or the people you manage who
directly manage
teams they're facing those same
complexity goal conflict how much is
projects and how much is people
management most of them feeling that
they're overburdened high degree of
stress and
fatigue one almost one and two or
actually one in two employees are
confident that their managers are able
to lead their teams
forward decision making and autonomy in
decision- making so what you're trying
to address here is decrease that sense
of information overload that sense of
not feeling confident in where you're
going and what you're doing and
increased decision autonomy and
confidence your tools are different than
desktop desky of old business objects of
those who might remember those
tools and the techniques but the
techniques remain somewhat similar we go
from focusing on workflows to focusing
on decisions you may be familiar with
some of our research around decision
intelligence one highly simplified way
of it thinking about it is that design
for the decision instead of Designing
for a task or a
workflow simple example every single one
of you probably have to complete a
compliance training every year and you
get the email reminder saying you have
to complete a compliance
training and then you get the reminder
and you have to remember if You'
actually completed it or not if you
think about it the only decision you
have to make it's not if you're doing it
it's when but none of the tools tools
actually support you in deciding when am
I going to do my compliance training so
it's orienting instead of giving you a
list of tasks orienting to the decision
to be made and how to enable it and
there are so many tools from these very
simple decisions to much more complex
ones that can be used to really support
and enable greater decision- making
including newer ones that are emerging
like composite AI platforms greater
natural language platforms Etc but the
foundation is designing for decision
rather than task or
workflow and that happens everywhere
even in the board if you think about
board level decision- making there's a
lot of routine decisions and information
that needs to be evaluated and needs to
be gone through how much of that could
be supported through some degree of
automation or giving more autonomy in
reviewing some of those insights and
that in information
so as we use decision intelligence to
increase the autonomy of people to
support decisions in all types of
context with varying degree of
automation or just augmentation or a
basic support like an alert we change
how people make
decisions and we can see that going
further with emerging capabilities that
we're starting to invest in that we're
starting to look
into like the idea of a
cobot so t somebody who works in
recruiting a recruiter they have many
different tasks that they do on any
given day they work across many systems
but there are large there're often a
large pool of recruiting especially if
you're in a recruiting firm or if you
have a large enough team that you have
some corporate
recruiters you can imagine with the
capabilities that are emerging today
that it would be interesting to start to
build rolep specific
cobots I will say say I see this mostly
in research oriented conversations
rather than live products but it's easy
to extrapolate to a cobot that's helping
somebody navigate the Myriad tasks that
they need to do recognize the context
what it is they need to focus on and
provide hopefully useful support it's
bringing clippy to life but in a
completely new way and hopefully much
better and useful way so we don't just
push it away every time
working across
applications another space that we can
imagine is the
maximizer maximizers can be very very
useful because within a given context
they're able to detect what the optimum
would be right here right
now and I know this very well because I
live with maximizer it's my
husband my husband likes to detect and
understand what is the optimum way to
use our new solar panels that we had
implemented this year and I've come to
learn that depending on the day how much
sun there is how many things need to get
done it's going to be a different order
for running the dishwasher or cooking or
laundry or what have you because the
optimum changes on any given day I can't
myself just say oh there's a rule we
always do it in this order it's this
time this thing no the optimum changes
every time because that's how his brain
works that's how his mind works he's
going to say the optimum today based on
all of these different criteria and
which one's going to be given more
importance because of our context that's
what's going to make the decision that
we're going to best achieve our
goal and we can see more Investments
especially in agent-based AI where
you're trying to build that capability
out to be able to detect the optimum in
a given context and apply
it so you're replicating decision
patterns you're setting a goal but that
goal can change slightly or the criteria
can SL change slightly depending on the
context you're using things like
simulations and scenarios to do so
imagine having that at work when you're
facing all of those really really tough
decisions I have it at
home sometimes I would like that at work
as well helping think through all those
options so in this space your talent
challenge is that complexity of
decision-making and the complexity of
people management and
Leadership your goal is to improve
leadership Edge through structured
autonomy you don't want people going
every which way you need some direction
you need some guidance but you want
better decision making and people
management you want people to feel more
confident and so you can t happen to
decision intelligence capabilities and
emerging things like cobots or tools
that can act as Ma
maximizers and so as we step forward
into these new capabilities and look
forward into these new capabilities
that'll emerge that we may invest in is
game-changing capabilities in our
organizations just think about how it's
changing decision Authority and speed
and even expectations of how fast you
can realistically take a
decision that brings us to our third
area
productivity productivity is the promise
of this wave of hype around AI so many
headlines so many studies promoting
great productivity improvements through
the use of generative AI through the
starting investments in new capabilities
that have
emerged we will publish very soon a case
study showing that sometimes these
statements are a little bit overstated a
team of developers only really gain 70
minutes a week in productivity by using
some of the newer capabilities so they
can be overstated but even if they are
we're going to need to be able to prove
it out we're going to have CEOs and
Boards saying where's the productivity
when we've made such a big investment in
these capabilities that are promising it
and the vendors that are promising
it one challenge that you will all face
as you look at what productivity is
realistic in the deployment all this
technology I'm going to be investing in
in the years to come to keep pace
through everyday Ai and maybe try to
change the game a
bit is that we'll be measuring
productivity in the old-fashioned way
how many widgets do people complete in a
given set of time especially when we're
thinking about worker and employee
productivity but when you're aiming for
autonomy you
can't use automation rules for measuring
productivity so when you aim for
autonomy you actually need to be
thinking about productivity at the
individual level the team level and the
Enterprise level and be thinking about
all of that source of friction that can
impede productivity digital friction
certainly but also work friction and
organizational level friction how do you
detect that and remove
it so in this Talent challenge or
organization challenge we're trying to
remove and decrease the level of
frustration and friction about the work
that we're doing and increase that sense
of organizational Effectiveness and if
we can't get a me better measure for
productivity at least perception of
productivity we already have some tools
to
detect and then people to act usually to
remove friction it could be things like
work style analytics digital experience
monitoring that detects and can
automatically remove friction but
digital twins of an organization that
looks at the flow of work and operations
and how the organization is self is
working to be able to identify areas of
improvement and improve and remove
friction and we could think of it at the
employee level with a digital twin of an
employee which we spoke about earlier
this
week an emerging capability and way of
thinking about
this will be generative Ai and extending
planning and Analysis and I'm hesitating
here because there can be a gap between
the promise of generative AI to help
detect and and show where there can be
conflict between all of these different
plans which actually makes the
organization operate less effectively
this is friction through how you set
goals and budgets and
plans those of you who are deep into the
technical pieces know that generative AI
does not work very well with tabular
data and planning is tabular data but
there are startups already looking at
how they can use tabular data as
input and then the Transformer models to
generate text as output to help support
analysis and evaluation and detection or
proposing different ways of looking at
how these different plans can intersect
or
conflict there you're removing
organizational friction so it's not just
for individuals it's again at that
Enterprise level and think about
emerging autonomous Logistics where
you're tapping into generative AI
capabilities things like Enterprise
nervous systems where you're looking at
capabilities and technology that can be
adaptable that can detect when something
is gone wrong in this in the um chain uh
the supply chain or the chain of
activities that needs to happen in that
logistical chain and detect and be that
maximizer that I spoke about detecting
the optimum in that particular context
to be able to best achieve the end goal
of delivery on time of the most number
of things and so that goal oriented
optimization gets in place and could
automatically generate
planning is this readily available off
the shelf today no is it being worked on
by
organizations and those who are
innovating heavily and investing heavily
in generative Ai and broader AI
capabilities
yes so that's why we say as we face this
ongoing Talent challenge of friction
hindering effectiveness of friction
being the cause of lack of productivity
or problems with
productivity we aim to use AI in its
many forms to improve productivity and
remove that unwanted fiction we move
from automation orientation thinking
about how to increase the number of
things that somebody can produce in a
given time that's not autonomy we focus
on removing friction and enabling
autonomy and that could be to things
like generative AI for planning once
that really emerges a digital twin of an
organization or simulation capabilities
or things that you start to build
because you know your operations and how
these techniques could really help drive
better
effectiveness
from a management perspective I know
this is more abstract and you might have
been thinking just about the person as a
leader but that leader is managing
operations and as their operations
transform and things are done more
autonomously in different parts of their
operations so do their responsibilities
and what they need to be watching
over so as you aim tomorrow to increase
autonomy through AI based on your
existing investment in Ai and your AI
investment plans you're going to be
aiming for getting tomorrow's skills
more quickly by driving down time to
competency at the individual level
whether they be individual workers in
the contact center or the executive in
the sea
Suite you're going to be focused on
improving management decision making
increasing autonomy so that people and
things can adapt to the unexpected ed
through better and more effective and
distributed
decisions and on the productivity front
you're going to move from thinking about
automation a number of widgets per time
to removing friction and enabling
autonomy of individuals and teams and
removing friction at the organization
level so that that input to Output ratio
that we talk about in productivity can
improve and you can go to the board and
the CEO and say yes our AI Investments
are helping us from a productivity
perspective so as you implement AI as
you focus on autonomy to address these
challenges that never go away that will
continue to stay but we continue to look
for new tools and new capabilities to
address them you will actually find that
your own role and responsibilities are
also
transformed so I invite you as you take
this long week away and the additional
sessions maybe you attend through today
talking about AI thinking about AI what
does it mean for us in our organizations
what does it mean from a productivity
angle what does it mean for me myself as
an executive leader focus on
autonomy for your people focus on
autonomy for your machines and you will
be part of changing the game in your
organizations
thank
[Applause]
you come on let's be free and